.\" vim: set syntax=nroff :
.Dd COMMIT
.Dt hirc.conf 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm hirc.conf
.Nd configuration format for
.Xr hirc 1
.Sh DESCRIPTION
A
.Nm
file is made up of lines. Each line can be either a command or a comment.
A command is a line that begins with a forward-slash
.Pq Sq / :
these are executed by hirc as though they were typed by the user.
Any other line is a comment and results in no action.

The commands that can be used in
.Nm
are described in
.Xr hirc 1 .
.Sh GENERATION
See the
.Ic dump
command in
.Xr hirc 1
.Sh TIPS
This section is entirely informative in intent and does not constitute a recommendation.
.Ss Comments
Comments can usually be written directly at the beginning of a line without worrying about inserting any special characters.
In order to prevent a command from running, a space
.Pq Sq \ 
can be placed at the start of the line.
It may be hard to tell wether a line is a comment or not with this,
so using a hash
.Pq Sq #
instead may be preferred.
Syntax highlighting can also be used,
making it very easy to tell if a line is a comment or not, visually:
see the
.Sx FILES
section.
.Ss Running Multiple Commands
With commands that take other commands as arguments (e,g:
.Ic /alias
and
.Ic /bind )
there is no syntax for passing multiple commands.

However,
.Nm
can be used to create macros, that can then be called using the
.Ic /source
command.

An example macro named
.Pa ~/.config/hirc/macros/clutter :
.Dl /toggle buflist.hidden
.Dl /toggle nicklist.hidden

Which could be configured to run on a keybind with:
.Dl /bind ^[b /source ~/.config/hirc/macros/clutter
.Sh FILES
Files included with the hirc source repository:
.Bl -tag -width vim/ftdetect/hirc.vim -compact
.It Pa doc/example.conf
Example configuration.
.It Pa vim/syntax/hirc.vim
Syntax file for
.Xr vim 1 .
.It Pa vim/ftdetect/hirc.vim
Detection of hirc config files for
.Xr vim 1 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr hirc 1
.Sh AUTHOR
.An hhvn Aq Mt dev@hhvn.uk
